Hello and welcome this lecture.
We are going to be displaying a loose screen and we're gonna be doing it entirely from within C++ to
spawn that widget.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So we'd like to display some UI when our player dies to tell them what's going on that they've lost
and that the level is about to reset.
So it doesn't come as a surprise to them.
So we need to create some UI.
Are you a widget, a UMG?
Unreal motion graphics widget.
So let's do that.
First of all, by creating a folder to store our UI.
And I already know we're gonna have two items of UI.
So I think I'll have a UI folder here and then let's go in here and.
Right.
Click and then go.
Should have done this before.
Bartletts are walking through.
We're gonna go to the user interface section, then select the widgets blueprints and the prefect's
going to uses WPP underscore and then it's gonna be loose screen.
Now you can do some base classes for this sort of stuff in C++, but we're not gonna cover this in this
section.
It's generally not necessary to do that.
And it's much easier to do this stuff in blueprint.
There's not much advantage to doing it in C++ unless you knew I was going to get super complicated and
you wanted to put some of that UI logic into C++.
In our case, this isn't the case.
So we can just go ahead and use the blueprints.
After all, UI is a visual thing.
It makes sense to use a visual tool to put it together now because you already know about how to create
widgets.
Then I'm gonna give this as a challenge to you to set up a loose screen.
We want to add some text explaining that the play has lost and that we're back to restart.
Want to position that text probably centrally, make it visible, make sure it's visible in the game.
And yet, like I said, explain that there will be a restart coming up.
And then after you've attempted this challenge, we're gonna look at how we can spawn this from C++.
You've seen maybe how to do this in blueprint before.
We're gonna see how we can do it from within C++.
I pause video.
Have a go.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So I'm gonna go and great.
First of all, a bit of text.
So I want to look for in the Pallot to the left, gonna look for the text item and bring that in.
I'm going to change it to you, lose pretty straightforward and unimaginative dialogue writing here,
never gonna change the color and opacity and the appearance to read to make it super clear that they've
lost.
And just rub it in a little bit more than I'm gonna expand out font and change the size to be bigger.
And then I'm going to expand the box around our text and I'm gonna center our text.
So going down justification I a central line text and if I expand out, see if there's somewhere else
where I can do central lined within.
No there isn't.
So I'm just gonna go and make the box size roughly appropriate and then I'm gonna go up to my alignment's
and my ankles and stuff like that, and I'm going to select the dropdown for anchors and select the
preset for anchoring to the middle, because that's what I want to do.
I want to set my alignment to be point five and point five, which basically means that we are aligning
to the center of the object rather than the top left corner.
Was going to do the anchor again.
Okay.
That doesn't that wasn't very helpful.
And then the position X y.
I think if I just set position next white to zero and zero because I've set my anchors up like that,
then my loose position is gonna be somewhere in the middle and I'm just gonna move it up ever so slightly.
Keep my position X zero position Y at minus 50 because I want to add in some secondary text saying and
in fact it might be easier just to duplicate the other text here because it's got all the setup that
I already need.
I just want to make it a little bit smaller, position zero again.
And I'm gonna say level will restart in five seconds and I'm going to make that font size much smaller.
So that's less in your face.
Something like this.
And then just move it down a little bit, a little notch and keep resetting that position X to zero
hundred percent.
Happy with the positioning.
I'm just gonna move it up a little notch more.
If I hold shift down, then I can lock it to the axis I'm moving with.
So it is more or less central like so k so I'm happy with that.
Now we need to go ahead and try and spawn the thing how we're gonna do that.
Well, first of all, we're going to need to know what widget class we're supposed to be spawning and
we need to know where we're going to be doing it from now.
As I've already said, I think a good place to do this is from the player controller itself.
And we're going to need to know in the player controller what class, what widget class are we trying
to spawn.
I know it's a blueprint class, but we need it still to be a class that we're trying to spawn.
So the way we're gonna do this is to create a new property up here.
There's gonna be edits anywhere.
And we are gonna want this to be a T subclass of because this is always a good way of making sure we
get a EUC UCLASS.
Basically, you could use the type UCLASS if you wanted to, but that doesn't restrict what kind of
class we can use.
And here we want to restrict it to only being you use a widgets.
If you go over to your blueprint, you can see if we go to somewhere in here, you can find a parent
class is use a widget, which we know when you put the prefix on, it becomes a you use a widget.
So this is a T subclass of.
And then we use our angle brackets is gonna be a. you use a widget.
And I'm actually going to forward declare that one here rather than do any includes.
So class you use a widget.
And then we're gonna call this the Leus screen class.
Just keep it really obvious what's going on there.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and compile at this stage while we do the next stuff, because compiling when
changing header file takes just that little bit longer.
Now, over in the C++, what we're going to want to do is actually spawn that widget up.
So we gonna want to do it maybe even before the time.
It doesn't really matter because the timer doesn't wait.
It just sets the time and then go straight onto the next line of code.
So we wouldn't be waiting five seconds if we did this at straight.
If we've spawned the UI straight afterwards, didn't really matter what order we do this in.
So we're going to want to do is use a function called create widget, which isn't currently available.
So we need to hash include something first.
And we're going to include is a blueprint for would slash user widget.
And that is the class that we need to access this create widget function.
And we're gonna basically say create widgets.
It needs to be well, actually, let's see what we need to provide it.
I'm going to f twelve to its implementation.
You can see what's a bit complicated to see.
But we do have a template parameter up here, which is the.
Basically, by default, the you use a widget.
So we probably don't have to provide that.
And then there is the owning object and the class that we need to create.
And then a widget name, which we don't necessarily need to provide.
And then it returns as the point to the widget.
So what I'm actually going to do is in here, we're going to give it an owner object.
Now, only certain things can own the widget.
One of those things is actually the player controller.
So we can just pass in this.
And the next thing is we want to pass in the T subclass of you use a widget.
Well, fortunately, we have already configured that up in the header file so we can just go ahead and
pass that in.
No, stop my indentation from trying to fix itself up.
While I haven't put a semicolon on the end of the line.
And then let's go and have a look at what else.
Well, that's it.
It just returns the widget at this point.
So what we can do is have a pointer to u use a widget star.
And this is going to be our luse screen.
So we had the loose screen class after we've created the widget.
It becomes an actual loose screen.
Next thing we need to do is make this UI visible.
We do that by adding it to the viewport in unreal parlance.
But first, because we add to the viewport by calling a function on the loose screen, we need to make
sure that it is not null pointer.
So if lose screen is not equal to no pointer, why could it be no points?
By the way, little challenge to you.
See if you can figure out why we might end up with a null pointer here.
Well, one reason is maybe we forgot to set the loose screen class.
And if that is the case and we don't have it loose, valid, loose screen class set, then create widget
is just going to return null points for us.
And we don't want that to happen.
And we don't want to certainly be calling a functional null pointer.
So when they're loose Green Arrow and then what we want here is a function called add to viewport,
which is simply gonna do just that.
Go and add it to the screen so we can see that live screen.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and compile that too, and go over into one real and open up our blueprint
for the player controller.
So shoot a play controller here and we should be able to see somewhere in here.
A variable that hasn't yet popped up.
Maybe I had some build errors.
Let's go and have a look at the message log.
Yes, we can see a few build errors in here, namely these weird ones about external symbols missing.
If we have a little look is thanks to the that you use a widget not being available.
Now, if you cast your mind back to a few lectures previously, we know that these kinds of errors tend
to be when we are missing a module dependency.
So if we go and open up our simple shooter to build dot C.
S, and I'm just going to close down the terminal for a bit more added space, then you can see what
we need to do is add a new public dependency here.
So to the end of this, we're going to add a public dependency for UMG.
So a new comma and then in quotes going to put UMG.
And that basically allows us to make use of the includes that we had here, the blueprint forward slash
use a widget.
All of that stuff is in a separate module to the standard stuff that's included.
So we do need to go and tell unveiled that we want to use that module in our C++.
Let's go ahead and build and see if it works now.
Okay.
That looks successful if we go over in to the editor.
And go back to shoot to play controller, some reason, I don't think it had properly reloaded, so
I've had to hit compile here in the editor.
We go back now to the shoot to play a controller.
At last you can see that loose screen class.
We can click the drop down there and go and select add WPP, underscore loose screen there, compile,
save and let's go and get ourselves killed.
Get shot at a couple of times.
Bang, bang.
And they go.
Our low screen has popped up telling us what's happening.
Levels bazza restart in five seconds.
And indeed it does.
So now you know not only how you can create UMG graphics, but also how you can spawn these from C++
rather than from Blueprint.
Next lecture, we're going to have a less pessimistic outlook on things and try and see if we can also
create some win conditions for this game.
I'll see you then.